Prime numbers.
    A number which its only factors are itself and 1.

Order of an element (in particular mod p).
    The order of an element is the minimum power which it must be raised to, to be congruent to 1 mod p

Order of power formula.
    ?

Cyclic groups. Subgroups of cyclic groups.
    A cyclic group 

Roots of unity.
    The roots of unity are values which yeild one when raised so some integer number

Primitive root of unity.
    A primitive root of unity is a value which has the multiplicative order p-1 for some number p

How to find a p.e.
    You can find a primitive element by finding the factors of p-1. You then loop from 2 to p-1 represented in a value a, then, if a does not have order p-1/(any of its factors) it is a primitive element. 

How to test if an element is a p.e.
    You can test if a number is a primitive element by making sure it's order is not p-1/(any of p-1's factors)

Expected running time.
    How long we can expect an alorithm to run.

Randomized algorithms: Las Vegas vs Monte Carlo.
    Las vegas=small chance of unexpected result, constant running time. 
    Monte carlo=definetly correct result, unexpected running time.

Primitive element (p.e.)
    A primitve element for p is a number which has the multiplicative order p-1.  

Fermat
    For p, a prime, and a, where p does not divide a, a^p-1 is congruent to 1 mod p

Lagrange
    Let p be a prime. Let a be an integer with gcd(a,p)=1.
    Then the order of a divides p-1.

Euler
    Euler totient function gives number of pe mod p

Gauss (p.e. mod p exists)
    If is prime, a primitive element modulo p exists, and hence the multiplicative group is a cyclic group.

Eulerfunction (forwards and backwards)


Number of p.e.


Z sub n and Z sub n star.
    z sub n = {1,...,n-1}
    z sub n star = {1,...,n-1} for which gcd(e,n) = 1

How to find all p.e. given one p.e.
    Get the cycle for a primitve element. The cycle at the indeces defined in s sub n star are primitive elements.
 

RSA, encryption and decryption. Examples using a computer algebra system.

How hard is it to factor integers.
    Hard

Discrete logarithm.
    z = a^k mod p where a and z and p are defined but you must find k

Primality tests
    Fermat test

Fermat test.


Fermat witness
    any number a which proves a not to be prime by the fermat test

Carmichel numbers
    numbers which arent prime, but have no fermat witness
AKS primality test
    test which proves primality
HW 1